# Secure-Count-Query-on-Encrypted-Biomedical-Data
Ongoing large-scale biomedical research projects focus on capturing the vast amount of meaningful information encoded in the human genome. To facilitate these types of projects it oftentimes requires sharing genomic and clinical data collected by disparate organizations among themselves. Genomic data, being sensitive in nature, necessitate the overall process of sharing, managing and analyzing the data does not reveal the identity of the individuals who contribute their genomic samples. The task of storage and computation on the shared data can be delegated to third party cloud infrastructures as those are highly available and scalable, and also are equipped with large storage and high-performance computation resources. Outsourcing these sensitive genomic data to the third party cloud storage is associated with the challenges of the potential loss, theft or misuse of the data as the server administrator cannot be completely trusted as well as there is no guarantee that the security of the server will not be breached. In this research, we address three potential challenges for secure sharing and computation on the genomic data. The first challenge is to guarantee data privacy. The data stored in the cloud server, as well as the computation carried throughout the entire analysis process should be secured. Even if the cloud server gets compromised, the attacker should not learn anything about the data stored in the cloud. The second challenge is to provide query privacy. The institutions contributing the data, the cloud service provider or an adversary should learn nothing about a query executed by a researcher or research institution. The third challenge is to achieve output privacy. The result of the query should not be disclosed to anybody except the researcher who initiated the query. Our objective is to provide a viable solution for sharing and computation of genomic data which will overcome all of the three challenges mentioned above.
